create egress perimeter controls page (#15426)
cockroachdb/docs: cockroachcloud/egress-perimeter-controls.md

- Exporting data
- Exporting logs

By default, clusters can access external resources via the internet without restriction. This potentially leaves a cluster open to a *data exfiltration* scenario, wherein an attacker, often a [malicious insider](https://www.cisa.gov/defining-insider-threats), steals data by sending backups, changefeeds, data, or logs to a source that they control. 

Operators of {{ site.data.products.dedicated }} clusters can mitigate against this risk by using Egress Perimeter Controls, which enable [admins](../{{site.versions["stable"]}}/security-reference/authorization.html#admin-role) to restrict egress to a list of specified external destinations. This adds a strong layer of protection against malicious data exfiltration. Along with other measures such as [Private Clusters](private-clusters.html), Egress Perimeter Controls are an important component in an overall strategy for maximizing network security.

Further reading: [review how CockroachDB products differs in advanced security features](../{{site.versions["stable"]}}/security-reference/security-overview.html).

{{site.data.alerts.callout_info}}

> Regardless of user-specific Egress Perimiter Control policy, egress is always permitted to services that are managed by Cockroach Labs and are essential to your cluster's functionality.

Reviewer: @abhinavg6 updated your suggestion to "policies". Is that correct?

> Regardless of user-specific Egress Perimiter Control policy, egress is always permitted to services that are managed by Cockroach Labs and are essential to your cluster's functionality.

Reviewer 2: Actually ''policy" is relevant Matt, because a policy is composed of multiple egress rules. The plural may confuse people that there are multiple policies across egress rules.

    ~~~

    ~~~json
    {
      "name": "roach-buckets",
      "type": "FQDN",
      "destination": "storage.googleapis.com",
      "ports": [
        443,
        80
      ],
      "paths": [
        "/customer-manged-bucket-1/*",
        "/customer-manged-bucket-2/*"
      ],
      "description": "egress for GCP storage buckets"
    }
    {
      "name": "roach-kafka",
      "type": "CIDR",
      "destination": "123.34.62.123/32",
      "ports": [
        443
      ],
      "paths": [],
      "description": "egress for Kafka"
    }
    ~~~

1. Make a `POST` request to create each rule from the JSON payload.
    
    [API spec]

    {% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
    ~~~shell
    curl --request POST \
    --header "Authorization: Bearer $CC_API_KEY" \
    --url "https://management-staging.crdb.io/api/v1/clusters/$CLUSTER_ID/networking/egress-rules" \
    --data "@egress-rule1"

    curl --request POST \
    --header "Authorization: Bearer $CC_API_KEY" \
    --url "https://management-staging.crdb.io/api/v1/clusters/$CLUSTER_ID/networking/egress-rules" \
    --data "@egress-rule2"
    ~~~

    ~~~json

    ~~~

    {{site.data.alerts.callout_danger}}

>     Your cluster's firewall behavior is not updated instantly when you submit the API request. After submitting the request, [check your egress rules](#check-a-clusters-egress-rules-allowed-destinations) to confirm that the new rules have been created.

Author: ```suggestion
    Your cluster's firewall behavior is enforced asynchronously after the API response. After submitting the request, [check your egress rules](#check-a-clusters-egress-rules-allowed-destinations) to confirm that the new rules have been created.
```

  --header "Authorization: Bearer $CC_API_KEY"
~~~

~~~txt

~~~

## Check a cluster's egress rules/allowed destinations

[API spec]

{{site.data.alerts.callout_info}}
Consult the glossary of [rule statuses](#rule-statuses).
{{site.data.alerts.end}}

{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
~~~shell
curl --request GET \
  --url 'https://cockroachlabs.cloud/api/v1/clusters/$CLUSTER_ID/networking/egress-rules' \
  --header "Authorization: Bearer $CC_API_KEY"
~~~

~~~txt

~~~

## Remove a rule

To delete a rule, make `DELETE` request to the rule's path.

{{site.data.alerts.callout_danger}}
Your cluster's firewall behavior is not updated instantly when you submit the API request. After, submitting the request, [check your egress rules](#check-a-clusters-egress-rules-allowed-destinations) to confirm that the deletion is complete.
{{site.data.alerts.end}}

{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
~~~shell
curl --request DELETE \
  --url 'https://cockroachlabs.cloud/api/v1/clusters/$CLUSTER_ID/networking/egress-rules/$RULE_ID' \
  --header "Authorization: Bearer $CC_API_KEY"
~~~

~~~txt
API RESPONSE!
~~~

## Rule statuses

> The API displays the following statuses for a rule, when you [inspect an egress rule] or [list a cluster's egress rules]:

Reviewer 2: This is an awesome list and very well documented. Thank you.

Operators of {{ site.data.products.dedicated }} clusters can mitigate against this risk by using Egress Perimeter Controls, which enable [admins](../{{site.versions["stable"]}}/security-reference/authorization.html#admin-role) to restrict egress to a list of specified external destinations. This adds a strong layer of protection against malicious data exfiltration. Along with other measures such as [Private Clusters](private-clusters.html), Egress Perimeter Controls are an important component in an overall strategy for maximizing network security.

Further reading: [review how CockroachDB products differs in advanced security features](../{{site.versions["stable"]}}/security-reference/security-overview.html).

{{site.data.alerts.callout_info}}
Regardless of user-specific Egress Perimiter Control policy, egress is always permitted to services that are managed by Cockroach Labs and are essential to your cluster's functionality.
{{site.data.alerts.end}}

The [Cloud API](cloud-api.html) provides a real-time status for if the rule enablement is in progress or is complete.

## Using Egress Perimeter Controls with the Cloud Console API

### Prerequisites

> - You need a Cockroach Cloud account with billing enabled. Egress Perimeter Controls are available only for {{ site.data.products.dedicated }}, not {{ site.data.products.serverless }} clusters, and {{ site.data.products.dedicated }} clusters cost money to run.

Author: Ha yeah, I forgot about this little thing... I'm just going to delete the note. We don't have warnings like this in general. I was wondering about how to message the fact that like, you can't do this 'tutorial' without having to pay for it... but I think it's unnecessary since it's since been decided to make it private preview.
Thanks for catching it!

> - Egress Perimeter Controls require your cluster to be a **Private Cluster**, with no public IP addresses on its nodes. Refer to [Private Clusters](private-clusters.html).

Reviewer 3: This is actually not strictly required at an infrastructure level. But Maybe @Abhinav wants to make it a prerequisite from a business perspective

Author: I believe it is being declared as a requirement despite not strictly being, that's what we decided at the meeting yesterday, correct @abhinavg6 ?

> - An API key with permissions to `edit` clusters in your org is required. You can provision API keys in the cloud console: [Create API Keys](console-access-management.html#create-api-keys)

Reviewer 3: Only `admin` role can write to the egress API.

Author: cool, thanks

    ~~~

    ~~~json
    {
      "name": "roach-buckets",
      "type": "FQDN",
      "destination": "storage.googleapis.com",
      "ports": [
        443,
        80
      ],
      "paths": [
        "/customer-manged-bucket-1/*",
        "/customer-manged-bucket-2/*"
      ],
      "description": "egress for GCP storage buckets"
    }
    {
      "name": "roach-kafka",
      "type": "CIDR",
      "destination": "123.34.62.123/32",
      "ports": [
        443
      ],
      "paths": [],
      "description": "egress for Kafka"
    }
    ~~~

1. Make a `POST` request to create each rule from the JSON payload.
    
    [API spec]

    {% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
    ~~~shell
    curl --request POST \
    --header "Authorization: Bearer $CC_API_KEY" \
    --url "https://management-staging.crdb.io/api/v1/clusters/$CLUSTER_ID/networking/egress-rules" \
    --data "@egress-rule1"

    curl --request POST \
    --header "Authorization: Bearer $CC_API_KEY" \
    --url "https://management-staging.crdb.io/api/v1/clusters/$CLUSTER_ID/networking/egress-rules" \
    --data "@egress-rule2"
    ~~~

    ~~~json

    ~~~

    {{site.data.alerts.callout_danger}}

>     Your cluster's firewall behavior is not updated instantly when you submit the API request. After submitting the request, [check your egress rules](#check-a-clusters-egress-rules-allowed-destinations) to confirm that the new rules have been created.

Reviewer 3: I'd reword this to `s/Your cluster's firewall behavior is not updated instantly when you submit the API request/Your cluster's firewall behavior is enforced asynchronously after the API response.`

Author: thx, much better!

Operators of {{ site.data.products.dedicated }} clusters can remove this risk by using Egress Perimiter Controls. This feature enables [admins](../{{site.versions["stable"]}}/security-reference/authorization.html#admin-role) to restrict egress to a specified external destinations. This adds a strong layer of protection against malicious data exfiltration. Along with other measures such as [Private Clusters](private-clusters.html), this is an important component in an overall strategy for maximizing network security.

Further reading: [review how CockroachDB products differs in advanced security features](../{{site.versions["stable"]}}/security-reference/security-overview.html).

{{site.data.alerts.callout_info}}
Regardless of user-specific Egress Perimiter Control policy, egress is allowed to services managed by Cockroach Labs and essential to your cluster's functionality.
{{site.data.alerts.end}}

> The Cloud API provides a real-time status for if the rule enablement is in progress or is complete.

Author: ```suggestion
The [Cloud API](cloud-api.html) provides a real-time status for if the rule enablement is in progress or is complete.
```

> ## Using Egress Perimeter Controls with the Cloud Console API

Author: That's true for steps, but isn't a step, it's a whole context, more like a page title, where we do typically use gerunds, "Managing..." So I disagree on this one.

1. Inspect your cluster in the [clusters page](https://cockroachlabs.cloud/clusters) in the {{ site.data.products.db }} console.

1. Find your cluster's universally unique identifier (UUID). To do this, click on the name of your cluster from the [clusters page](https://cockroachlabs.cloud/clusters) in the console. The UUID will appear in the URL of the overview page for that specific cluster, in the format:

`https://cockroachlabs.cloud/cluster/{ your cluster's UUID }/overview`

1. Save your API key and cluster UUID as environment variables.

    {% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
    ~~~shell
    CC_API_KEY={ your API key }
    CLUSTER_ID={ your cluster UUID }
    ~~~

1. Inspect your cluster with the API

    {% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
    ~~~shell
    curl --request GET \
      --url "https://management-staging.crdb.io/api/v1/clusters/$CLUSTER_ID" \
      --header "Authorization: Bearer $CC_API_KEY"
    ~~~

    ~~~json
    {
      "id": "f0d06734-55ba-42e2-b606-2c1f58e6b9eb",
      "name": "able-quetzal",
      "cockroach_version": "v22.1.8",
      "plan": "DEDICATED",
      "cloud_provider": "AWS",

>       "account_id": "000906112402",

Author: ```suggestion
      "account_id": "1234567",
```

      "state": "CREATED",
      "creator_id": "b7d7bedc-b8f3-4a98-bd2c-4ba2bf9adbe1",
      "operation_status": "CLUSTER_STATUS_UNSPECIFIED",
      "config": {
        "dedicated": {
          "machine_type": "m5.large",
          "num_virtual_cpus": 2,
          "storage_gib": 15,
          "memory_gib": 8,
          "disk_iops": 225
        }
      },
      "regions": [
        {
          "name": "us-west-2",
          "sql_dns": "able-quetzal-6qpd.aws-us-west-2.crdb.io",
          "ui_dns": "admin-able-quetzal-6qpd.aws-us-west-2.crdb.io",
          "internal_dns": "",
          "node_count": 1
        }
      ],
      "created_at": "2022-10-25T16:44:05.068910Z",
      "updated_at": "2022-10-25T17:01:27.566551Z",
      "deleted_at": null
    }
    ~~~

### Change your cluster's egress traffic policy to deny-by-default

{{site.data.alerts.callout_info}}

> External traffic destined to CRL-managed resources will always be allowed regardless of user-specified egress policy.

Reviewer 3: Ah the EgressRule response has a field called `crl_managed`, which leaks the crl name. Too late to change now :/

> External traffic destined to CRL-managed resources will always be allowed regardless of user-specified egress policy.

Author: Good point Carlo, but I think Matt's point still stands.

{{site.data.alerts.end}}

1. Make a POST request ordering the API to update your cluster's egress policy.

    {% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
    ~~~shell
    curl --request POST \
    --header "Authorization: Bearer $CC_API_KEY" \
    --url "https://management-staging.crdb.io/api/v1/clusters/$CLUSTER_ID/networking/egress-traffic-policy" \
    --data '{"allow_all":false}'
    ~~~

    ~~~txt
    ???
    ~~~

> 1. Check your cluster's status and confirm the update is complete before proceeding.

Author: I don't know, I can't access the API. @carloruiz how do you tell if the update is complete?

> 1. Check your cluster's status and confirm the update is complete before proceeding.

Reviewer 3: Hmm, there's a field in the `intrusion_crdb_clusters` table called `restricted_egress`. If Set to true, then the update has been successful. I know @rgcase was trying to expose this field in the console response for get cluster. 

This is an oversight on my end as without it, there's no way users can tell if the default-deny policy has taken effect :grimace.

> 1. Check your cluster's status and confirm the update is complete before proceeding.

Author: Hmm. To understand this, there is currently no way to verify if Egress Perimeter Controls has been enabled or not on the API?

> 1. Check your cluster's status and confirm the update is complete before proceeding.

Author: Essentially, you can check if Egress Perimeter Controls have been enabled by GETting "clusters/$CLUSTER_ID/networking/egress-rules", which will... I guess error if the feature isn't enabled? I think I'll suggest that, after verifying it once I have API access.

> 1. Check your cluster's status and confirm the update is complete before proceeding.

Reviewer 3: Nope, the functionality still works even though restricted egress is not set. The difference is the egress rules are not enforced. I'll put up a PR that surfaces the `egress traffic policy` field on the get cluster response. It won't make it to prod until next week though.

 {% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
    ~~~shell
    curl --request GET \
      --url "https://management-staging.crdb.io/api/v1/clusters/$CLUSTER_ID" \
      --header "Authorization: Bearer $CC_API_KEY"
    ~~~

### Create egress rules to allowed destinations 

An egress rule is created with the following attributes:

> - `name`: A name for the rule

Author: ```suggestion
- `name`: A name for the rule.
```

    {% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
    ~~~shell
    ruby -ryaml -rjson -e 'puts(YAML.load(ARGF.read).to_json)' < egress-rule1.yml > egress-rule1.json
    ruby -ryaml -rjson -e 'puts(YAML.load(ARGF.read).to_json)' < egress-rule2.yml > egress-rule2.json
    ~~~

1. Use the shell utility JQ to inspect the JSON payload:
    
    {{site.data.alerts.callout_info}}
    On a Mac, install JQ with `brew install jq`
    {{site.data.alerts.end}}

    {% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
    ~~~shell
    cat egress-rule1.json |jq
    cat egress-rule2.json |jq
    ~~~

    ~~~json
    {
      "name": "roach-buckets",
      "type": "FQDN",
      "destination": "storage.googleapis.com",
      "ports": [
        443,
        80
      ],
      "paths": [
        "/customer-manged-bucket-1/*",
        "/customer-manged-bucket-2/*"
      ],
      "description": "egress for GCP storage buckets"
    }
    {
      "name": "roach-kafka",
      "type": "CIDR",
      "destination": "123.34.62.123/32",
      "ports": [
        443
      ],
      "paths": [],
      "description": "egress for Kafka"
    }
    ~~~

> 1. Make the POST request to create each new rule.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Make a `POST` request to create each rule from the JSON payload.
```

    
    [API spec]

    {% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
    ~~~shell
    curl --request POST \
    --header "Authorization: Bearer $CC_API_KEY" \
    --url "https://management-staging.crdb.io/api/v1/clusters/$CLUSTER_ID/networking/egress-rules" \
    --data "@egress-rule1"

    curl --request POST \
    --header "Authorization: Bearer $CC_API_KEY" \
    --url "https://management-staging.crdb.io/api/v1/clusters/$CLUSTER_ID/networking/egress-rules" \
    --data "@egress-rule2"
    ~~~

    ~~~json

    ~~~

    {{site.data.alerts.callout_danger}}

>     Your cluster's firewall behavior is not updated instantly when you submit the API request. After, submitting the request, [check your egress rules](#check-a-clusters-egress-rules-allowed-destinations) to confirm that the new rules have been created.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Your cluster's firewall behavior is not updated instantly when you submit the API request. After submitting the request, [check your egress rules](#check-a-clusters-egress-rules-allowed-destinations) to confirm that the new rules have been created.
```
Any idea how long you might need to wait?

    {{site.data.alerts.end}}

### Check the status of a rule

{{site.data.alerts.callout_info}}

> Consult the glossary of [rule statuses](#rule-statuses).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Refer to the list of [rule statuses](#rule-statuses).
```
I'd update the language in other sections to match this. it's not strictly a glossary.

{{site.data.alerts.end}}

> [API spec]

Reviewer: Are these TODO?

Author: yes

{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
~~~shell
curl --request GET \
  --url 'https://cockroachlabs.cloud/api/v1/clusters/$CLUSTER_ID/networking/egress-rules' \
  --header "Authorization: Bearer $CC_API_KEY"
~~~

~~~txt

~~~

### Check a cluster's egress rules/allowed destinations

[API spec]

{{site.data.alerts.callout_info}}
Consult the glossary of [rule statuses](#rule-statuses).
{{site.data.alerts.end}}

{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
~~~shell
curl --request GET \
  --url 'https://cockroachlabs.cloud/api/v1/clusters/$CLUSTER_ID/networking/egress-rules' \
  --header "Authorization: Bearer $CC_API_KEY"
~~~

~~~txt

~~~

> ### Removing a rule

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Remove a rule
```

> A `DELETE` request to the rule's path tells the API to delete the rule.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To delete a rule, make `DELETE` request to the rule's path.
```

{{site.data.alerts.callout_danger}}

> Your cluster's firewall behavior is not updated instantly when you submit the API request. After, submitting the request, [check your egress rules](#check-a-clusters-egress-rules-allowed-destinations) to confirm that the deletion is complete.

Reviewer: Reminder to keep this in sync with other places the same text is used.

Reviewer: Re-reminder since you changed the other instance based on feedback. 👼

{{site.data.alerts.end}}

{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
~~~shell
curl --request DELETE \
  --url 'https://cockroachlabs.cloud/api/v1/clusters/$CLUSTER_ID/networking/egress-rules/$RULE_ID' \
  --header "Authorization: Bearer $CC_API_KEY"
~~~

~~~txt

> API RESPONSE!

Reviewer: TODO?

Reviewer 3: A full `EgressRule` is returned in the delete response.

~~~

## Rule statuses

> The API display the following statuses for a rule, when you [inspect an egress rule] or [list a cluster's egress rules]:

Reviewer: TODO finish the links

Reviewer 3: `s/display/displays`

- `PENDING_UPDATE`: An `PATCH` request to update a rule is in process. The behavior may not yet be implemented in your cluster's firewall.
- `PENDING_DELETION`: The rule-removal is being implemented. The behavior of the cluster's network firewall may still reflect the target rule, so egress may still be allowed to the destination.
- `DELETION_FAILED`: A rule update or a rule removal has failed. The behavior of the cluster's network firewall may still reflect the previous state of the rule. This is a rare occurrence and does indicate that you should [contact the Cockroach Labs Support Team](https://support.cockroachlabs.com) immediately, rather than attempting to retry rule creation, to avoid leaving your cluster's firewall in an unknown state.
- `INCONSISTENT`: This indicates that a rule cannot apply consistently across all of the regions or compute resources to which it is meant to apply. This is a rare occurrence and does indicate that you should [contact the Cockroach Labs Support Team](https://support.cockroachlabs.com) immediately, rather than attempting to retry rule creation, to avoid leaving your cluster's firewall in an unknown state.

## Troubleshooting

> The process 

Reviewer: Weird formatting?

Author: whoops

    ~~~yaml
    ---
    name: "roach-buckets"
    type: "FQDN"
    destination: "storage.googleapis.com"
    ports: [443, 80]
    paths:
        - "/customer-manged-bucket-1/*" # replace with bucket path
        - "/customer-manged-bucket-2/*" # replace with bucket path
    description: 'egress for GCP storage buckets'
    ~~~

1. Next, create a YAML manifest for a CIDR-based rule. This example adds egress to a self-managed Kafka cluster.

    {% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
    ~~~yaml
    --- # egress-rule2.yml
    name: "roach-kafka"
    type: "CIDR"
    destination: "123.34.62.123/32" # replace with Kafka cluster CIDR range
    ports: [443]
    paths: []
    description: 'egress for Kafka'    
    ~~~

1. Use Ruby (or another technique), to compile human-editable YAML into API-parsable JSON:

    {% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
    ~~~shell
    ruby -ryaml -rjson -e 'puts(YAML.load(ARGF.read).to_json)' < egress-rule1.yml > egress-rule1.json
    ruby -ryaml -rjson -e 'puts(YAML.load(ARGF.read).to_json)' < egress-rule2.yml > egress-rule2.json
    ~~~

1. Use the shell utility `jq` to inspect the JSON payload:
    
    {{site.data.alerts.callout_info}}

>     On macOS, you can install `jq` from Homebrew: `brew install jq`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    On macOS, you can install `jq` from Homebrew: 
    
    {% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
    ~~~shell
    `brew install jq`
    ~~~
```
Very optional: I suspect this info is more usable if it's a code block, but I'll leave the decision entirely up to you.

      }
    }
    ~~~

    {{site.data.alerts.callout_danger}}
    Your cluster's firewall behavior is enforced asynchronously after the API response. After submitting the request, [check your egress rules](#check-a-clusters-egress-rules-allowed-destinations) to confirm that the new rules have been created.
    {{site.data.alerts.end}}

## Check the status of a rule

{{site.data.alerts.callout_info}}
Refer to the list of [rule statuses](#rule-statuses).
{{site.data.alerts.end}}

{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
~~~shell
curl --request GET \
--header "Authorization: Bearer $CC_API_KEY" \
--header  'Cc-Version: 2022-09-20' \
--url "https://management-staging.crdb.io/api/v1/clusters/$CLUSTER_ID/networking/egress-rules/$RULE_ID"
~~~

~~~txt
{
  "rule": {
    "id": "aa4f37d7-9aa4-456d-8df7-225d5c91c120",
    "cluster_id": "21f474d5-3e65-4a54-9317-e8d8803ef917",
    "name": "roach-kafka",
    "type": "CIDR",
    "state": "ACTIVE",
    "crl_managed": false,
    "destination": "123.34.62.123/32",
    "ports": [
      443
    ],
    "paths": [],
    "description": "egress for Kafka",
    "created_at": "2022-10-27T19:36:25.670162Z"
  }
~~~

> ## Check a cluster's egress rules/allowed destinations

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Check a cluster's egress rules and allowed destinations
```

--header 'Cc-Version: 2022-09-20' \
--url "https://management-staging.crdb.io/api/v1/clusters/$CLUSTER_ID/networking/egress-rules/egress-traffic-policy" \
--data '{"allow_all":false}'
    ~~~

    ~~~txt
    ???
    ~~~

1. Check your cluster's status and confirm the update is complete before proceeding.

    {% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
    ~~~shell
    curl --request GET \
      --url "https://management-staging.crdb.io/api/v1/clusters/$CLUSTER_ID" \
      --header "Authorization: Bearer $CC_API_KEY"
    ~~~

## Create an egress rule to allow a destination

An egress rule is created with the following attributes:

- `name`: A name for the rule.
- `type`: Whether the destination will be specified as a fully-qualified domain name (FQDN), or as a range of IP addresses specified in CIDR notation. Value is `"FQDN"` or `"CIDR"`.
- `destination`: Either a fully qualified domain name, for example `www.cockroachlabs.com`, or a CIDR range, for example, `123.45.67.890/32`.
- `ports`: An array of allowed ports, for example `[44,8080]`.
    {{site.data.alerts.callout_danger}}
    By default, all ports are allowed.
    {{site.data.alerts.end}}

> - `paths`: An array of allowed destination paths.

Reviewer 2: Would be good to provide an example for this too.

- `description`:

The following steps create one FQDN rule and one CIDR rule.

> 1. First, create a YAML manifest for a FQDN-based rule. This example, adds egress to a Google Cloud Platform (GCP) storage bucket.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. First, create a YAML manifest for a FQDN-based rule. This example adds egress to a couple of Google Cloud Platform (GCP) storage buckets.
```

    {% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
    ~~~yaml
    ---
    name: "roach-buckets"
    type: "FQDN"
    destination: "storage.googleapis.com"
    ports: [443, 80]
    paths:
        - "/customer-manged-bucket-1/*" # replace with bucket path
        - "/customer-manged-bucket-2/*" # replace with bucket path
    description: 'egress for GCP storage buckets'
    ~~~

> 1. Next, create a YAML manifest for a CIDR-based rule.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Next, create a YAML manifest for a CIDR-based rule. This example adds egress to a self-managed Kafka cluster.
```

  
~~~

~~~txt
{
  "rules": [
    {
      "id": "564a25da-b99c-4e08-9ec3-483c0f1bc620",
      "cluster_id": "21f474d5-3e65-4a54-9317-e8d8803ef917",
      "name": "roach-buckets",
      "type": "FQDN",
      "state": "ACTIVE",
      "crl_managed": false,
      "destination": "storage.googleapis.com",
      "ports": [
        443,
        80
      ],
      "paths": [
        "/customer-manged-bucket-1/*",
        "/customer-manged-bucket-2/*"
      ],
      "description": "egress for GCP storage buckets",
      "created_at": "2022-10-27T19:35:51.435571Z"
    },
    {
      "id": "aa4f37d7-9aa4-456d-8df7-225d5c91c120",
      "cluster_id": "21f474d5-3e65-4a54-9317-e8d8803ef917",
      "name": "roach-kafka",
      "type": "CIDR",
      "state": "ACTIVE",
      "crl_managed": false,
      "destination": "123.34.62.123/32",
      "ports": [
        443
      ],
      "paths": [],
      "description": "egress for Kafka",
      "created_at": "2022-10-27T19:36:25.670162Z"
    }
  ],
  "pagination": null
}
~~~

## Remove a rule

To delete a rule, make `DELETE` request to the rule's path.

{{site.data.alerts.callout_danger}}

> Your cluster's firewall behavior is enforced asynchronously after the API response. After, submitting the request, [check your egress rules](#check-a-clusters-egress-rules-allowed-destinations) to confirm that the deletion is complete.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Your cluster's firewall behavior is enforced asynchronously after the API response. After submitting the request, [check your egress rules](#check-a-clusters-egress-rules-allowed-destinations) to confirm that the deletion is complete.
```

- Exporting data
- Exporting logs

By default, clusters can access external resources via the internet without restriction. This potentially leaves a cluster open to a *data exfiltration* scenario, wherein an attacker, often a [malicious insider](https://www.cisa.gov/defining-insider-threats), steals data by sending backups, changefeeds, data, or logs to a source that they control. 

Operators of {{ site.data.products.dedicated }} clusters can mitigate against this risk by using Egress Perimeter Controls, which enable [admins](../{{site.versions["stable"]}}/security-reference/authorization.html#admin-role) to restrict egress to a list of specified external destinations. This adds a strong layer of protection against malicious data exfiltration. Along with other measures such as [Private Clusters](private-clusters.html), Egress Perimeter Controls are an important component in an overall strategy for maximizing network security.

Further reading: [review how CockroachDB products differs in advanced security features](../{{site.versions["stable"]}}/security-reference/security-overview.html).

{{site.data.alerts.callout_info}}

> Regardless of user-specific Egress Perimiter Control policy, egress is always permitted to services that are managed by Cockroach Labs and are essential to your cluster's functionality.

Reviewer: Do a scrub for "Perimiter". 👼

{{site.data.alerts.end}}

## Prerequisites to using Egress Perimeter Controls with the Cloud Console API

> - You need a Cockroach Cloud account with billing enabled. Egress Perimeter Controls are available only for {{ site.data.products.dedicated }}, not {{ site.data.products.serverless }} clusters, and {{ site.data.products.dedicated }} have a non-zero operating cost that must be billed.

Reviewer: Use the variable for Cockroach Cloud wherever possible.

- Egress Perimeter Controls require your cluster to be a **Private Cluster**, with no public IP addresses on its nodes. Refer to [Private Clusters](private-clusters.html).

> - An API key with `admin` privilege on clusters in your org is required. You can provision API keys in the cloud console: [Create API Keys](console-access-management.html#create-api-keys)

Reviewer: It might be overkill, but perhaps a link to admin role.

{{site.data.alerts.callout_danger}}
The operations described in this page require an API key with very broad permissions, such as the ability to modify dedicated clusters, including adding potentially malicious egress rules that could defeat the type of attack that this feature is meant to prevent. Do not allow this key to be copied or transmitted in any form, including by capturing an image of your computer screen. Delete the API key when the operations are completed.
{{site.data.alerts.end}}

## Initialize your shell with your API key and Cluster id

1. Inspect your cluster in the [clusters page](https://cockroachlabs.cloud/clusters) in the {{ site.data.products.db }} console.

1. Find your cluster's universally unique identifier (UUID). To do this, select your cluster from the [clusters page](https://cockroachlabs.cloud/clusters) in the console. The UUID will appear in the URL of the overview page for that specific cluster, in the format:

>     `https://cockroachlabs.cloud/cluster/{ your cluster's UUID }/overview`

Reviewer: I think we tend to use underscores and lowercase for placeholders.

    {% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
    ~~~shell
    curl --request GET \
    --header "Authorization: Bearer $CC_API_KEY" \
    --url "https://management-staging.crdb.io/api/v1/clusters/$CLUSTER_ID"
    ~~~

    ~~~json
    
    {
      "id": "21f474d5-3e65-4a54-9317-e8d8803ef917",
      "name": "docstest",

>       "cockroach_version": "latest-v22.2-build(sha256:e42c4de8577556132120a9ab07efc1a2a96779c028ebab99223d862d9792428b)",

Reviewer: Probably just a nit, but I wonder if this should be changed to the 22.1.9 build hash. Unless this feature requires v22.x.

1. Check your cluster's status and confirm the update is complete before proceeding.

    {% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
    ~~~shell
    curl --request GET \
      --url "https://management-staging.crdb.io/api/v1/clusters/$CLUSTER_ID" \
      --header "Authorization: Bearer $CC_API_KEY"
    ~~~

## Create an egress rule to allow a destination

An egress rule is created with the following attributes:

- `name`: A name for the rule.
- `type`: Whether the destination will be specified as a fully-qualified domain name (FQDN), or as a range of IP addresses specified in CIDR notation. Value is `"FQDN"` or `"CIDR"`.
- `destination`: Either a fully qualified domain name, for example `www.cockroachlabs.com`, or a CIDR range, for example, `123.45.67.890/32`.
- `ports`: An array of allowed ports, for example `[44,8080]`.
    {{site.data.alerts.callout_danger}}
    By default, all ports are allowed.
    {{site.data.alerts.end}}
- `paths`: An array of allowed destination paths.

> - `description`:

Reviewer: Need a description for the description.
